Welcome to M-Sim!


This README briefly describes how to install and run M-Sim. For more details,
please refer to the M-Sim User's Guide.

This simulator is a modified version of the SimpleScalar toolset. Documentation
from the origional SimpleScalar tool can be downloaded from:

	http://www.simplescalar.com

This README file documents differences between this version and the origional
SimpleScalar 3.0d, and offers instructions for getting started with the simulator.


TO INSTALL:

The following details how to build and install the simulator:

	a) vi Makefile
	
	Make sure all compile options are set for your host, we've listed
	the options for the OS/compiler combinations that were tested,
	uncomment one of these if appropriate.  You'll likely not have to
	change anything for the supported hosts, and if you need to change
	anything, it will likely be the CC variable (which specifies
	the ANSI C compiler to use to build the simulators).  NOTE: the
	simulators must be built with an ANSI-C compatible compiler, if you
	have problems with your compiler, try using GNU GCC as it is known
	to build the simulators on all the supported platforms.

	If you are using the Debian machines in the South Pod, these default
	options in the Makefile work fine. These defaults should also work
	for most other flavors of Linux. If you are attempting to use a different
	OS, the it is up to you to determine the correct settings.

	b) make

	Use the make command to build the simulator. It generates an executable
	called sim-outorder. This is the main executable for the simulator.



BENCHMARKS:

M-Sim supports the statically linked Alpha AXP binaries. It supports the full set of
SPEC2000 benchmarks, as well as other benchmarks, as well as other benchmarks supported
by SimpleScalar. The SPEC2000 Alpha binaries are available from the SimpleScalar website
<http://www.simplescalar.com>, and can be used as is with M-Sim as well.

In order to run the simulator, you will need to set up some "argument files". The 
User's Guide describes these files in more detail. A few sample argument files
have been provided for your reference.


RUNNING THE SIMULATOR:

The simpliest way to run the simulator is to change to the directory containing
the sim-outorder executable, and issue a command as follows:

	../sim-outorder gcc.arg

Where wupwise is the benchmark you would like to run. This will run the simulator
on the benchmark, using default values for all parameters.

Specifying only one benchmark will run the simulator in single-threaded
"Superscalar" mode. Alternatively, you may specify more than one argument file:

	../sim-outorder gcc.arg anagram.arg

This will run the simulator in SMT (Simultaneous Multithreaded) mode. You may specify
up to MAX_CONTEXTS threads (which is specified in smt.h, and has a default value of
8).


Good luck!

Joseph Sharkey

Department of Computer Science
State University of New York
Binghamton, NY 13905
<jsharke@cs.binghamton.edu>
